# README #

# MTUnitHelper - A Toolchain to Automate MTUnit
The problem of Unit Testing in MetaTrader is that there is a lack of pre-developed testing frameworks, such as Google Test, jUnit, CppTest and so on.

This project is part of a bigger project called: MTUnit - A Unit Test framework for MetaTrader 5.
MTUnit Project can be found here: https://github.com/rodrigoshaller/MTUnit and it consists basically in a home made Unit Test Framework developed for MetaTrader 5 (yes, you can use it in MetaTrader 4, maybe some adjusts need to be made, but it won't be a big deal, I promise).

Let's make something clear:
###This project is not a Unit Test! MTUnit is!
###This project is a toolchain intended to make our lives easier in terms of writing Test Suites and Test Cases.

I'll briefly explain each tool, but for a more complete explanation, I suggest you to read my MTUnit Project.

### Tool: MTUnitTestsCompiler
This is the most important tool here. It scans the Test directory and goes through all test files looking for every Test Suite and their respective Test Cases.

Then , it writes a file called MTUnitAllTests.mqh containing all basic declarations you would have had to write manually.

You can use it by two different ways: Directly, or as a Watcher.

What do I mean by "directly"? You can call the mtUnitHelper.exe file passing the argument: mtUnitTestsCompiler, and it will generate the MTUnitAllTests.mqh file once.

Or you can use it as a Watcher. In this case, if you run the mtUnitHelper.exe without any argument (simple double click on the .exe file), the app will enter in a Watcher mode.

In this mode, it will monitors the Test folder and trigger whenever a change is made to that directory.
@warning In this case, the app will keep running until you close it.

### Tool: MTUnitEALinker
This tool is used to update the config files required by the MetaTerminal when running an Expert Advisor.

It looks for the EA Parameter and updates it with the name of the generated .ex5 file.
@note In order to use this tool, the argument received by mtUnitHelper.exe must be: mtUnitEALinker WriteHereThePathOfTheEAYouWantToRun.mq5

### Tool: MTUnitLogger
This tool looks for the output log file generated by MetaEditor, hijacks this file to the Runners folder and adds some color to the output to make it more visual effective.
@note In order to use this class, the argument received by mtUnitHelper.exe must be: mtUnitLogger
@warning The colored output does not work directly from MetaEditor, so if you want to use it, I suggest you to follow the instructions (MTUnit Project) for using this tool in Sublime Text 3.

If you didn't take a look at the MTUnit Project, you may be wondering why MTUnitEALinker and MTUnitLogger are used for. Doesn't MetaEditor links to my EA and output the logFile?

Yes it does. But, as referenced in the MTUnit Project, I don't like to use the MetaEditor. So I've configured Sublime Text 3 to build and run everything automatically with the press of a button (F7). And that's where the need to develop this 2 tools came from.

So, if you are not planning to use Sublime Text or any other tool for developing Expert Advisors, MTUnitEALinker and MTUnitLogger won't be useful for you.

I suggest you to simply double click on mtUnitHelper.exe before start coding your EAs and it will manage your tests automatically for you.

### Other Thoughts

If you are asking yourself why isn't this project inside MTUnit Project... I decided to make this a separate project because:
* It is a separate project. MTUnit is a Unit Test Framework... MTUnitHelper is not.
* This project can be adapted for your own needs. It doesn't need to be exclusive for MT5. (It is written in C++ using QTCreator, btw)

@note In order to work, the file structure must follow the structure of this project. An by saying that I mean that the mtUnitHelper.exe file must be inside the "Runners" folder and the tests must be placed inside a "Test" folder. The MTUnitAllTests.mqh will be generated inside a "Include" folder.

That's it. Just let me know if you have any suggestions, critiques or doubts.

Cheers,

Rodrigo Haller (rodrigoshaller@gmail.com)

This project is made under GNU General Public License